>> Jafar Husain: We've built ourselves
some factory functions for observables,
but what about the most common
functions that we actually use?
The ones that you guys
learned in the last class?
MAP, filter, reduce, zip, etc.
So let's try and build some of those.
What I love about this is that really,
once you guys see what's
going on under the hood, and
we step through it with the debugger,
you're gonna have a much more solid
understanding of how observable works.
And you're also gonna see that
there's not that much to it.
It's actually pretty simple.
So let's build ourselves
my favorite function, map.
So notice that the previous two
functions have been static.
Because they've been factory functions,
right?
They don't work on an observable,
they create an observable.
But map is different.
Map works on an observable.
So if you remember how we use map,
bear with me here.
>> Jafar Husain: I can have an observable.
Let's say I have some observable.
I can map it.
And I can take all the numbers in that
observable and increment them by 1, right?
So that's how map works.
So let's write the map function.
So what's the signature of map?
What function?
What does it take?
>> Speaker 2: It takes a function.
>> Jafar Husain: Sometimes it's
called the projection function.
>> Jafar Husain: It takes an item and
it turns it into a new item, all right?
And what does map return?
>> Speaker 2: A non-observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Non-observable, right?
Good default answer.
All right, and so we're gonna
define the subscribe method here.
So for this observable we're returning,
we're now defining what happens
when they call subscribe.
So guys,
what happens when I call subscribe?
>> Jafar Husain: Let's
write a little program.
Let's go and actually add,
so we can play around here,
I'm gonna add a little button on screen.
>> Jafar Husain: There our,
should be a button.
>> Jafar Husain: There it is.
>> Jafar Husain: So we have a nice button.
And let's take the clicks on that button
and turn them into an observable.
So just before we write map,
we'll just build ourselves an observable
we can play around with and transform.
>> Jafar Husain: And,
>> Jafar Husain: Try and
make this bigger for the folks at home.
>> Jafar Husain: Help me out, guys,
what am I gonna do here to
make a clicks observable?
>> Jafar Husain: What do
I have to pass in here?
>> Speaker 2: Event name?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
the event name, right.
Notice what I did here?
It's plural.
I tend to name my observables
just like I name my arrays,
because I want us to get out of
the mode of thinking about events
as this thing we hook up to, and
this weird thing we unhook from.
It's just a collection,,
it's just a stream, all right?
So now we created ourselves
a stream of all the future clicks.
Is this a steam that's infinite,
or finite?
>> Speaker 2: Infinite.
>> Jafar Husain: Infinite, right?
>> Speaker 2: No dollar sign?
>> Jafar Husain: That is a convention
that a lot of people use.
I don't have anything against it,
really, but I don't.
So feel free to use that if you like.
For those of you at home who don't
know what he's talking about,
some people use this convention
to denote observable.
I think it's clever.
A little too clever for me.
So I'm gonna stick with that.
So now we have a clicks observable, so
let's just actually quickly make sure
this works before we jump on a map.
>> Jafar Husain: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: Can you now save it so
that we can pull in the recent changes?
>> Jafar Husain: Seems reasonable.
I saved the snapshot,
hopefully that works.
>> Speaker 2: No,
it's a different URL, no?
>> Jafar Husain: So I'm not as experienced
with doing this in a shared way.
Is it adifferent URL?
Looks the same to me, but-
>> Speaker 2: It's with the,
cuz you got the html, yeah.
It's the output.
>> Jafar Husain: Cuz
the output window is open.
But I wouldn't expect that would impact
that your ability to see the content.
So I mean, I can keep saving a snapshot.
But it's probably the best
I can do I'm afraid.
>> Jafar Husain: If anybody can see it if
they can help him out, that'll be awesome.
>> Jafar Husain: So this is kind of
what we expect, no big surprises here.
And actually I am gonna do this just
one more time just to drive it home,
make sure we all understand.
I'm gonna step through this flow here and
see how this happens.
>> Jafar Husain: Start by can we
get to clicker observable there?
>> Jafar Husain: That really
doesn't want to work.
>> Jafar Husain: Hit debugger that time.
>> Jafar Husain: There we go.
So what happens when we
step in to subscribe?
Well, we jump all the way up to
that wrapper subscribe method.
We're always gonna find ourselves
in there, that's no big deal.
And then we're gonna hop
in to real definition, so
this what happens when you
subscribe to our clicks.
We create this handler function
which closes over the observer, and
it's gonna keep it alive as long as
somebody has a handle onto this function.
So our observable will stay alive.
We add an event listener,
and then we're done, right?
That's all there is to do.
But, since all the fun happens inside of
our handler, I'm gonna put a break point
right here, and we'll see what happens
when we call, when we press the button.
Now, we find ourselves into the handler,
and we're gonna pump
a value into that observer.
I'm gonna step into next here, and we
find ourselves in the real log function.
>> Speaker 2: We had a question on
chat if you wanna check it out.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: Doesn't a hot
observable never complete?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that was earlier,
and then there's another one too.
>> Jafar Husain: So
a hot observable absolutely can complete.
>> Jafar Husain: You can
just miss the boat, right?
Ideally, what would happen is if a hot
observable completes, it would usually,
a well behaved observable
would remember that fact so
that if subsequent subscribers come along,
it just [SOUND] instantly completes for
them so they don't just leak memory.
That's how you would expect
an observable to behave, all right,
if a hot observable completes.
So if you had a network request as a hot
observable and somebody subscribed, and
the network request came back and then
it completed, you would expect the next
person to come along to subscribe,
to just immediately completely.
Another thing it coul do is it
could store away the result.
And then give them result and
then complete, right?
And so it's possible for
a hot observable to complete.
Just means you gotta be all
the quicker to get that data.
And then isn't dollar sign EL for
wrapped ELS like with jQuery?
I think the question is asking, isn't the
convention dollar sign used for jQuery?
It is in the convention there.
It's the actually identifier
of the jQuery library.
I think the only reason why people suggest
using the dollar sign here is that it just
makes it clear that it's an observable,
as opposed to an array or some other,
or generator, or some other vector
like type with a lot of items.
And it's kind of clever cuz
the dollar sign looks like an s.
So has nothing to do with jQuery.
Don't worry about that.
Let's write ourselves a map
function to map our events.
Now one thing about a click is,
we can actually see,
bear with me here, we can see it's
actually got a lot of stuff in there.
So instead of just writing next,
I'm actually gonna log
the event object itself.
>> Jafar Husain: Well, that seems like
the JSON string FIDE event object.
That's a lot of stuff, right?
That's gonna be hard to see
in the console right there.
So why don't we just pluck off one
property, or something like that, right?
Maybe the client x, which is where
on the button it was clicked.
We can do that.
What's a good function
we can use to do that?
Well, map, right?
Map is great for taking objects and
just grabbing little pieces off of them.
So I'm gonna write map, and, right,
we're back to where we were now.
So we're gonna try and
use map to pluck off just
the piece that we want.
So in this case, we are gonna
pluck off the clientX property.
Which is the X position on
the button where it was clicked.
I think it is either offsetX or clientX.
And then we're gonna subscribe.
So obviously this isn't
gonna work right now.
Because we don't have a map function.
So let's go ahead and
write our map function.
So you guys are experts at writing
observable functions right now.
So you're gonna help me out here.
>> Speaker 2: I assume we have
to use this thought subscribe?
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
because the source of the data, right now,
clicks as it were is
actually the this object.
Because map is an instance
method on observer.
If I use this object here though,
I'm gonna run into a problem.
What is it?
>> Speaker 2: This binding.
We'll be able to find-
>> Jafar Husain: This binding problem.
This binding because
this function is here.
But this binding [LAUGH] is
gonna be to this observable, and
not the exterior observable.
So we're use that trick we use
in JavaScript, where we go,
a lot of you might have seen this before.
That allows us to store away whether
this object was a second ago,
right, previously.
>> Speaker 2: Why not just use .bind?
>> Jafar Husain: We can use .bind.
Yeah, absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: Also, would an arrow
function work for the parameter?
>> Jafar Husain: All three
of those would work.
The reason why I typically don't use
an arrow function is just cuz we got so
many functions we're slinging here,
I like to give it a name here so
we know we're inside of subscribe.
But absolutely, that would work as well.
You know what I'm gonna do, actually guys?
I'm going to let you guys take
a second to try and write this.
I'm gonna put this up here, and
I'm gonna let you guys take a stab at it.
Just give it a shot.